# SEP18

## Measurement group preparation

Theory:
* From now on, in order to start the measurement group, it is mandatory to prepare it.
* The measurement group is prepared for a number of starts. The preparation will expire whenever all starts gets called or in case of stop/abort. Afterwards measurement group requires another preparation.
* Direct start of the measurement group (after prior configuration of the integration time or synchronization) will be supported as backwards compatibility

Measuremnet group interface:

```
$> taurusdevicepanel mntgrp01
```

Example of usage:

```
TODO: taurus extension usage
```

## Experimental channel preparation

```
def PrepareOne(self, axis, value, repetitions, latency, nb_starts):
```

```
def LoadOne(self, axis, value, repetitions, latency):
```

**Important**: Difference between measurement group number of starts and experimental channel number of starts:

Measurement group number of starts means how many times a measurement group will be started by a Start command.
Experimental channel number of starts means how many times an experimental channel controller will be starter by `StartOne` method.

For example, in a continuous scan, the measurement group is started only once, but an experimental channel controller synchronized by software is started multiple times. Check all the possible [combinations](https://github.com/sardana-org/sardana/blob/develop/doc/source/sep/SEP18.md#controllers).

## Sardana synchronization modes:

TODO: add link to acq synchronization types

[AcqSynch](https://sardana-controls.org/devel/api/sardana/pool/pooldefs.html#sardana.pool.pooldefs.AcqSynch) was extended with two new options:
* SoftwareStart (which means internal start)
* HardwareStart (which means external start)

[AcqSynchType](https://sardana-controls.org/devel/api/sardana/pool/pooldefs.html#acqsynchtype) was extended with one new option (supported from expconf):
* Start

TODO: demo acquisition synchronization

## Further improvements

* More information about the acquisition status apart from State: On, Moving, Alarm.
    * Standby value when waiting in armed state for synchronization event?
    * A dedicated attribute like acq_status in Lima?
* Bring measurement group elements to safe state when something goes wrong?
* Parallel start of experimental channels
* How to solve long prepare and start, Tango 3 s. timeout?
